hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and today i'm going
to be explaining my educational journey
a little bit
i get quite a few messages especially
from your subscribers who are just a
little confused about
you know what exactly did i do as a
student like why was i in hong kong
what did i do at stanford and am i still
at cambridge because i'm currently
in germany and so i just thought i would
explain the different stops along the
way on my educational journey
and yeah let's do it
okay so let's start out in high school i
was at a normal german public high
school and we actually had a bilingual
class and i was part of that class
basically what that meant is that we
were taught one subject in english in a
year
so the subject changed every year so
sometimes it was biology
history and every time it was geography
um
but honestly i think it really really
helped me with my english
and i really enjoyed these lessons
however unfortunately we were only
offered to do biology as an a-level
subject and you needed to do one subject
in english in order to get your
international a levels and that was
something that i definitely didn't want
to do because i mean i had put in all
the work in the years before
but i really didn't want to do biology
at a-levels because
i wanted to study law and i honestly
didn't enjoy biology that much
so i was already looking at transferring
schools simply because
my school did not offer the subjects
that i wanted to do for a levels
and that's how i came across the united
world colleges
the united world colleges are a group of
folding schools around the world which
have the mission to unite people from
different parts of the world together
for a sustainable and peaceful future
and honestly when i read their website
and i researched different schools i was
just like
oh my god that is literally everything
that i want
and so i applied and i was admitted for
the
school in hong kong which is libertarian
united world college now
when you apply to the united world
colleges you usually apply to your
national committee
and the german foundation of the united
world colleges offers any student who
needs financial aid
a scholarship and it can be up to full
scholarships if you need that
so the great thing is that you don't
have to worry about whether you can
afford it and that was absolutely 100
percent true in my experience because
they gave me a quite generous
scholarship which then allowed me to
attend liberty united world college
so from 11th and 12th grade i was in
hong kong
until then i'd been in germany i was in
my bilingual class
but that was pretty much it like i
wasn't at an international school or
anything like that
um but honestly my german public school
was amazing and they supported me
a lot um especially also in the
application process to uwc
a lot of my teachers you know agreed to
do a prep interview with me
and they gave me tips for applying to
different foundations and stuff
so i'm really really grateful to that
school um it was just unfortunate that
it really wasn't a match with the a
level subject selection
but yeah that's how i then ended up in
hong kong if you guys want to know more
about how i got into my school in hong
kong so what extracurriculars did i have
what were my grades like in high school
then you can check out the video that i
made about that up here or also in the
description box below
in hong kong i did the ib so we were
taught in english only and as subjects
for a higher level i did
history global politics and english
language and literature and
for my standard level subject i did
mathematical studies french b
and biology so i still did biology but
only as a standard level subject which
means i
had to do much less work for it than had
it been you know a more intense a level
course
and so i was fine with that but i just
knew that i wouldn't want to do it for
example as a higher level subject
in the ib you also have to do an
extended essay which i think for a high
schooler it's a pretty big research
project
and you pick the subject in which you
write it i wrote mine in history about
the nuremberg trials
and i just researched that over the
summer break and then i finished it when
i was in 12th grade
now also in that summer break between
11th and 12th grade i went to stanford
university for their summer session
it's basically a program for high
schoolers where you can attend
university classes
which is a lot of fun in my opinion like
okay that's my definition of fun
i don't know if every people would think
that's fun but i really really enjoyed
it
that was also by the way the first time
in my life that i got like a really
fancy looking certificate and i still
treasure it
like i think it looks very fancy
um so basically um you can do a
certificate there so
you can do for example a human rights
intensive study certificate or you can
pick a different topic
like they offer a few different ones and
in order to get these certificates you
just need to attend a few extra talks
and you need to
pick subjects from a certain subject
area and i did the human rights
intensive study certificate because
that's the area that i was really
interested in i still
am very interested in that and i did a
course on introduction to international
relations and in everyone on genocide
and humanitarian intervention i believe
the summer session lasted for about
eight weeks
it was pretty intense because it is
university classes and you are just
coming from you know the high school
experience
and in university you are expected to be
much more independent
um however i really enjoyed the
experience and i think
it you know was just like a nice look
into what uni life will be like
and the other thing is because i was
writing my extended essay at the time
i was able to use their libraries and
resources also for researching my
extended essay
and that was super super useful
especially because stanford has a law
school and i had access to the law
school library
so i could get my hands on academic
literature about the nuremberg trials
for that
and that was very useful so yeah it was
honestly
like a really good match and i basically
just did my uni classes and wrote my
extended essay at the same time and
that's how i spent my summer so i
finished my classes at stanford with a
4.0 on all of them
and then i went back to hong kong for my
12th year and in grade 12 i also applied
for universities now you usually apply
with your predicted grades because you
don't
have your exam grades yet since you're
only going to sit them in a year
um so i was predicted at 42 with 776 in
my higher level subject
and that's why i applied to cambridge
because that matches what their usual
conditional offer for law is
and um i also applied to a few different
universities especially in the us
um and a few in the uk um if you guys
are interested in where i applied where
i got rejected and where i got in
i have an entire video about that and
i'm gonna link it up here and in the
description box below for you guys
but basically long story short um it
really came down to a decision between
princeton
and cambridge there were two main
reasons for why i picked cambridge over
princeton
one is at cambridge i could study law as
an undergraduate student in the us you
can't do that so i would have had
studied something related to politics
and while i am very interested in
politics i am more interested in law
and so cambridge offered me the right
subject the other factor which is
honestly a very big reason for me as
well is
money because princeton's financial aid
offer was honestly
not great and my cambridge college which
is saint john's college offered me the
nazi bursary
and that one enabled me to attend
cambridge and so cambridge was the
better option
subject-wise but also financially now
thanks to my amazing school in hong kong
i actually got a second scholarship for
cambridge
because my school in hong kong
recommended me to a german foundation
called the studio and stiftung
and your school can recommend you after
you leave to school and go to university
but there are also other ways into the
foundation and i'm going to link them in
the description box below if you guys
are interested in them
but basically my school recommended me
to the foundation and then the
foundation
invites you to apply and so i applied to
them and i did my selection process
in the first year that i was at
cambridge and i also got in
and so then i had a second scholarship
which came from that german foundation
so so far it sounds like my first year
went really really well at cambridge but
actually it was a really really bad time
for me and
i hadn't really you know processed all
these changes in my life and i think it
was just
a lot that was happening all the same
time and i became very very unhappy and
i felt very very lonely
and i ended up being diagnosed as
clinically depressed which honestly
made sense um because i was
miserable putting it mildly and so i
ended up leaving cambridge after
my second term so you have three terms
in the year so i finished the two
terms where we have teaching and usually
the last term is the exam term
and i left and i went to therapy here in
germany and just got better
and then i returned for my second year i
was already doing youtube at the time
and i was honestly really scared of you
know telling people that i left for my
mental health like i took a break
um because i felt like it made me look
like a failure which is such a
dumb thing because honestly if you take
a break for your mental health
that's a really strong thing that you're
doing and
you are taking a step to getting better
and that's something you can be proud of
but i was in a very bad mindset at the
time and i didn't really see that
but i did of course know that people
would notice eventually that i'm not a
cambridge anymore
and so once i had gotten a lot better
things to therapy
and you know also just working on myself
um i then made a video about it which is
this video
why i left cambridge um which honestly
helped me personally
so much because i thought that i was
gonna lose subscribers and i was gonna
get
really mean comments about you know not
being good enough but actually people
were so supportive
and helpful and nice and kind um
so that was a really good experience for
me that also really helped me
feel like i done the right thing and
like it was accepted that i had done
this
and that people were supporting me so
yeah thank you so much to everyone who
commented under that video you
made me very very happy in a really
difficult time and so yeah basically i
spent my entire summer
and the exam term going to therapy
working on myself
and then i went back to cambridge for my
second year and i had to sit my first
year exams at the beginning of my second
year
but honestly that was all right um and
yeah
then i just did my second year and i was
so much happier during my second year
i think you can also see that in my
vlogs like i was
genuinely excited about you know being
at cambridge and
i really enjoyed it and yeah i'm just so
glad
that i took that mental health break
because i realized in my second year
that
i can be genuinely happy in this place
and it took a lot of work to get to that
genuine happiness but i did reach it and
i'm so so glad that i had my second year
with all my friends
but yeah then the pandemic happened
and we were all sent home and there is
this like 40 minute vlog of me panicking
whether i can get home i feel like i
just keep mentioning different
videos but that's basically just you
know in case you watched it maybe you
know
the story but yeah basically um what i
mean is
it was a bit of a of a drama for me to
get home if you want to watch that drama
at some point i'm gonna link it in the
description box below but long story
short i made it home
and yeah then we had to sit our exams at
home now normally
um you'll get a class in the uk
but we weren't classed that year so it's
like first two one two two
fed i mean you are class based on you
know the percentage you achieved
but the faculty decided not to class us
in that year because
a you know suddenly the exam format had
changed and b they knew it was a very
difficult time for all of us
and you know things were just very
improvised during that year
because nobody had prepared for that
scenario
and um so they felt like it wasn't fair
to students to class them and so they
only gave us the percentages now i ended
up getting about the equivalent of a 2-1
um
and a first an international law i ended
up getting a third scholarship from my
college for the percentages that i
achieved during my exams
and basically um that isn't a monetary
scholarship but it did come with a
college prize
which has some money attached to it and
um that was honestly great because it
just helped me
pay my university bill um so yeah
that's where my second year story ends
and my time in cambridge basically
went on a break because i'm doing an
exchange year
now my year abroad was agreed on
before covet happened so i
thought i was you know going to do a
normal year abroad at rigginsburg
university in germany
it turns out i'm pretty much just at
home doing online classes which are not
provided by cambridge but rather by
reagansborg and some of them happen to
be in german rather than just
english like they would be in cambridge
so those are the big differences
right now my year abroad isn't like i
imagined it to be
but that's perfectly okay and i'm
honestly really glad actually that you
know i get to be with my family
during this time and yeah that's
where i'm at now um i just finished my
classes for my first semester so unlike
in cambridge we don't have free terms
but remember we just have two semesters
and so i will be setting my exams in
february and march
and then the second semester will start
in april
and yeah that's my educational journey
summarized um i hope this you know
clears up a little bit of the confusion
you know about
where i was at different points of you
know my educational journey
um because i understand it's a little
bit all over the place um
but yeah i'm honestly very very grateful
for all these experiences
that i got to have already and yeah my
time in cambridge wasn't always perfect
but i got to be real with you my second
year in cambridge was
one of the best years of my life and i
can only tell you that like that mental
health break is the reason for why i got
to have that amazing year
so yeah thank you so much to everyone
who watched this video and also to all
the people who made
all these different steps on my journey
amazing
and yeah let's see what this year abroad
has in store for me
but yeah thank you so much for watching
have a nice day bye
[Music]
you